Echosamp consists of two subdirectories, an echo client (echoclnt)
and an echo server (echosrv), located in \TOOLKIT\SAMPLES\TCPIPTK\ECHOSAMP.

The echosrv directory contains three samples of echo servers:

ECHOSMT.C  - This version of the server is a multithreaded, multiclient
             TCP/UDP echo server.  It starts a new thread for each
             TCP connection it accepts.  The main thread is responsible for
             handling UDP echo requests, issuing the accept() for each new
             TCP connection, and spinning off a thread to service it.

ECHOSRV.C  - This version of the server is a single threaded, multiclient
             TCP/UDP echo server.  It services UDP echo requests, TCP echo
             requests, and requests for new TCP connections all from one
             thread using select().


ECHOSTCP.C - is a single threaded, TCP only echo server.  It services only one
             TCP echo client at a time.

This program implements the server side of the Echo protocol (RFC 862).  The
Echo protocol is very simple: whatever the client sends to the server, the
server will send right back to the client.

This version of the server services UDP echo requests, TCP echo requests, and
requests for new TCP connections all from one thread using select().

The complete RFC is reproduced below:


Network Working Group                                          J. Postel
Request for Comments: 862                                            ISI
                                                                May 1983

                             Echo Protocol

This RFC specifies a standard for the ARPA Internet community.  Hosts on
the ARPA Internet that choose to implement an Echo Protocol are expected
to adopt and implement this standard.

A very useful debugging and measurement tool is an echo service.  An
echo service simply sends back to the originating source any data it
receives.

TCP Based Echo Service

   One echo service is defined as a connection based application on TCP.
   A server listens for TCP connections on TCP port 7.  Once a
   connection is established any data received is sent back.  This
   continues until the calling user terminates the connection.

UDP Based Echo Service

   Another echo service is defined as a datagram based application on
   UDP.  A server listens for UDP datagrams on UDP port 7.  When a
   datagram is received, the data from it is sent back in an answering
   datagram.


Following are details on building and executing the echo server samples:

   1. To compile and link the sample programs, type:

        nmake -f vacpp.mak         (to build using the VisualAge C/C++ compiler)

    2. Executing echosmt.exe, echosrv.exe and echostcp.exe

         a. To start the echosmt server, type:

            start echosmt

            An additional session is created and the following
            messages are displayed:

            TCP socket assigned is 144
            UDP socket assigned is 145

         b. To start the echosrv server, type:

            start echosrv

            An additional session is created and the following
            messages are displayed:

            TCP socket assigned is 146
            UDP socket assigned is 147

         c. To start the echostcp server, type:

            start echostcp

            An additional session is created and the following
            message is displayed:

            TCP socket assigned is 148
