

The STYLE application provided here is built as an 'extension' of
the OS/2 2.0 STYLE Toolkit sample. The 'extenstions' are related
to work with bidirectional languages.

The following is a description of the bidirectional extensions that
have been implemented in STYLE.

1)  Client Area

    The client area (client window) of STYLE is divided into two parts:
    In the upper part a few text strings are displayed. Each one of them
    is displayed using OS/2 APIs.
    The strings on the left, are always readable because the program
    disables the GPI bidirectional support for them.
    The string on the right side are affected by the process bidi attributes
    that are in effect for Style.

    Disabling and enabling the GPI support is done with the
    GpiSetBidiAttr() function, in sty_pnt.c.

    For example, if STYLE is run in a session where the environment
    contains:   SET BIDIATTR=TEXTTYPE_VISUAL, TEXT_ORIENT_RTL,
    then the strings on the right side will be simply reversed.

    The last row in the client area will show the last text that
    was queried from the clipboard. It may be useful for looking
    at the actual clipboard text, when using Paste with No Conversion.


2)  File

      Open
        In: sty_file.c, FileOpen().
        The File->Open dialog comes up in the National Language
        (i,e not in English) and is right-justified.
        This is a result of setting the FDS_NATIONAL_LANGUAGE
        flag in the FileDlg structure.

      Save and Save as... -
             In sty_file.c, FileSave() and FileSaveAs().
             No code changes have been implemented. However, if the
             STYLE program is run when 'SET STDDLGLANG=NATIONAL'
             is defined in the environment, these dialogs will come
             up Right-To-Left and inthe National Language.

3)  Edit

      In file sty_edit.c.

      Copy   This shows a few techniques of Copying (or cutting)
             bidirectional text to the PM clipboard.

             No Conversion   - The text is copied to the clipboard.
                               the clipboard is put in 'no conversion' state.
                               When pasted to a requesting application
                               the text will be pasted 'as is'.
             Auto Conversion - The text is copied to the clipboard.
                               The process bidi attributues of STYLE is
                               used as the bidi attributes of the text
                               that was copied. When the clipboard text
                               will be converted (as part of the paste
                               operation) to another application, the
                               Process Bidi Attributes of STYLE will be
                               used as the 'source' bidi attributes.
             Copy Visual       The text is copied to the clipboard.
                               The clipboard text is marked as having
                               Visual Texttype.
                               Visual texttype will be used as the
                               source bidi attribtues when the text
                               will be pasted to a requesting application.
             Copy Implicit     The text is copied to the clipboard.
                               The clipboard text is marked as having
                               Implicit Texttype.
                               Implicit texttype will be used as the
                               source bidi attribtues when the text
                               will be pasted to a requesting application.

      Paste  This shows a few techniques of querying data from the clipboard.

             No Conversion     The text, as stroed in the clipboard, is
                               copied to the application buffer, with
                               NO text conversion (i.e, as is).
             Auto Conversion   The clipboard text is converted accoriding
                               to the Process Bidi Attributes of the
                               requesting application (STYLE, in this case).
             Paste Visual      The clipboard text is converted to VISUAL
                               as part of the WinQueryClipbrd() operation.
             Paste Implicit    The clipboard text is converted to IMPLICIT
                               as part of the WinQueryClipbrd() operation.


4) Options --> Font

            No Code Change.
            The font dialog should come up Right-To-Left and in the
            National Lanauge if the environment variable
            'SET STDDLGLANG=NATIONAL' is in effect.

            Note: you can explicitly set the font dialog to
            the national Language also bu setting the
            FNTS_NATIONAL_LANGUAGE) style flag in the FONTDLG structure.


5) Controls

       Dialog Controls:

              Buttons - The whole dialog comes up in Right-To-Left
                        orientation. All the child controls are also
                        right-to-left.
                        This is a result of using BIDIPARAMs in the
                        resource file.

              Listboxes - The listbox dialog is not right-to-left. but
                        the listboxes themselves are dynamically set to have
                        right to left window orientation using
                        the WinSetLangInfo() API.
                        Some listboxes have visual text. Some have
                        Implicit text.
                        You can see that the national text is sorted
                        correctly when the text is implicit, and is sorted
                        incorrectly when the text is visual.
                        In file: sty_dlg.c, routine: LoadListBox().


              Combobox - The combobox dialog is not right-to-left.
                        The simple combobox is set to visual and to
                        right-to-left window orientation.
                        The other comboboxes are set to Implicit text
                        and right-to-left window orientation.


              Single-Line Entry Field - The dialog is set to Right-To-Left
                        window orientation.
                        The entry fields themselves are set, in the
                        dialog template (in sty_main.dlg) as follows:
                        The first Entry Field is set to Visual text
                        and left-to-right window orientation.
                        The second Entry Field is set to Visual text
                        and right-to-left window orientation.
                        The third and forth entryfields are set to
                        Implicit text, contextual orientation, and
                        left to right window orientation.

              Multi-Lines Entry Field -
                        The first MLE is set to Visual text, right-to-left
                        window orientation.
                        The first MLE is set to Implicit text, right-to-left
                        window orientation.

              Static -  The whole dialog is set to Right-to-left window
                        orientation.

              CUA Controls:

              Sliders - Both sliders are set to right-to-left
                        window orientation, dynamically.
                        This is done in sty_dlg.c (InitializeSlider()).

              Spin Buttons - both spinbuttons are set to right-to-left
                        window orientation, dynamically.
                        This is done in sty_dlg.c (InitializeSpinButton()).


              Notebook - The notebook and the page windows are dynamically
                         set to have right-to-left window orientation.
                         This is done in sty_dlg.c (InitializeNotebook()).
                         Also, the strings of the notebook are displayed
                         in the appropriate language.

              Value Set - The value set window is set to right-to-left
                         order using the VS_RIGHTOLEFT style.
                         In addition, the first item is set to have
                         a TEXT style, and a text orientation of
                         right-to-left. As a result, it is displayed
                         with it text inverted.

              Container - The container is set to right-to-left window
                         orientation and to Implicit text, dynamically,
                         in sty_dlg.c (InitializeContainer()).

                         As a result, the container items (records)
                         are right justified.
                         You may want to change view of the container.
                         You can do this by clicking with the right mouse
                         button on the container and selecting a view.
                         All views will be Right-To-Left.
                         You can also dynamically edit the text of each
                         of the icons by pressing the left mouse button
                         when the ALT key is pressed. Editing will be
                         in the natural language (i.e, right-to-left
                         if in Arabic and Left-to-right if
                         the text is in English).

                         Note that in Details view, the first column
                         (on the right) has right-to-left window orientation
                         so that it is right-justified, and the second
                         column (on its left) has left-to-right
                         window orientation and is left-justified.
                         This is done by sending the  CM_SETFIELDBIDIATTR
                         message.

       Message Controls: No code changes.
                         When the 'SET STDDLGLANG=NATIONAL' environment
                         variable is defined, all messagebox are
                         right-to-left and the text in the push buttons
                         is displayed in the national language.

                         NOTE, when the MessageBox has right-to-left
                         window orientation, the MessageBox also comes
                         up right-to-left. You can try this by inversing
                         the frame window (see 'Menu' below), and then
                         bring up a MessageBox.

6)  Menu                 This shows a few examples of creating menus.
                         The 'Inverse Window' items will reverse the
                         window orientation of the frame window (and
                         as a result, the titlebar and the menu).



7) Text Transform        Shows the interface to the LayoutTransform()
                         API, for transformations of bidirectional text.
                         in sty_user.c, TransformText().



